Lemurian `None `100 `14 `22 KM/H `Jump, Fall, Climb `Enemy `Melee `Lemurians are purple anthropomorphic bipedal reptiles which stand 7 feet tall. They wear shoulder and arm plates, indicating high intelligence. Lemurians and their subspecies are common across all of Petrichor V, and appear to live in underground caverns and tunnels, from which they ambush prey. Lemurians seem to coordinate in a colony-like society, evidenced by their armor, underground logistic network, established hierarchical roles, and adoration for song and dance. They possess slender bodies covered with purple iridescent scales, and cyan accents streamlining across their inner legs, chest, and arms. Their limbs end with dull beige-colored claws. Their mouths have short, sharp fangs with brightly colored blue gums and tongues. Their eyes are bright cyan. Despite their apparent progress as an intelligent colonial faction, the regular Lemurians lack any weapons aside from their fangs, and claws, which they are not shown to use. `Lemurians engage the player by running towards them on land, and initiating a bite attack when in range. They can jump over ledges and climb ropes, and typically spawn in large groups, making up for their low damage and health. Due to their relatively small size, Lemurians are easily staggered by light attacks, and are easily countered by stuns or by outmaneuvering them. Lemurians are one of 4 enemies capable of climbing and attacking on ropes, the other three being Lynx Tribe, Children and Clay Men. `Desolate Forest, Dried Lake, Damp Caverns `BASE ` Field Notes: The first sentient species I discovered on my unfortunate arrival. Around 7' tall, with scaly skin not different from that of a lizard. Bipedal. Aggressive on sight, minus a few exceptions. These Lemurians have an extremely powerful bite, but don't seem to employ weapons. All species that I have encountered have armor on their shoulders and wrists, indicating a high intelligence. They seem to live in underground tunnels networked all over the planet, and can use these tunnels to ambush prey. From what I've briefly seen, they seem to enjoy song and dance.
Stone Golem `None `300 `34 `10 KM/H `None `Enemy `Melee `Stone Golems are 10-foot tall humanoids comprised entirely of stone, soil, and moss. They're animated by an unknown force and are among the slowest creatures in Petrichor V. They're gentle protectors that can use their slow, but powerful bulky arms to "clap" and generate tremendous amounts of force. Stone Golems revert back to the ground when they've sustained enough damage. `The Rock Golem is slow but tough. It has one attack, in which it claps its hands together when in melee range, dealing a great amount of damage in front of it. They cannot jump or climb but will loiter at the edge of cliffs if no survivor is in range. It is easily beaten by staying out of range or isolating it to a ledge from which it cannot reach the player, or by walking past it while its performing its sluggish, telegraphed attack. Rock golems are bulky enough to endure regular attacks, but are still susceptible to stuns. `Desolate Forest, Sky Meadow, Ancient Valley, Summoned by Colossus `BASE ` Field Notes: Now THEY are interesting. These Golems, which tower over me at 10' tall, are constructed from the soil and rock beneath my feet. After a brilliant red flash, the earth itself moves to create these constructs in 2 seconds flat. If I didn't know better, I would consider this.. magic. Because of their material, they are extremely tough to take down. Using the same technology that constructs them, the Rock Golems are capable of creating a 'clap' which generates great amounts of energy. Damaging a golem eventually causes it to malfunction and die, returning to the ground. Despite their powerful combat abilities, the golems are gentle to everybody but me, and can be seen 'playing' with wildlife.
Sand Crab `None `300 `34 `22 KM/H `None `Enemy `Melee `The Sand Crab is a 10-foot tall brown crustacean with large light brown pincers and yellow beady eyes. It seems to hide under piles of sand and moss, digging itself in before popping up when prey is in sight. Sand Crabs possess a brown chitinous exoskeleton, usually covered in leftover moss after digging itself up from the ground. They have dark brown undersides, shifting to a deep blue hue further down their mouthparts. Their legs are short and spindly, but move dexterously enough to match the speed of a Lemurian. `Sand Crabs behave very similarly to Rock Golems, lacking the ability to climb rope, jump, or cross wide ledges. They attack by crushing their pincers together, dealing the same damage as a Rock Golem, with more or less the same attack speed. They're comparatively larger than Rock Golems, and therefore have a wider hitbox. As such, they're immune to light attack knockback but not stuns. `Dried Lake, Sunken Tomb `BASE ` Field Notes: A few hours after my crash, I finally decided to investigate the nearby area. As I moved past a particularly large mound of sand, it began to shift and roar. From it erupted a giant crab-like beast, standing above me at 10' with claws the size of a small man. The giant crab moves surprisingly fast for its size; the foliage growing on its back indicates that they stay still for long periods of time. This crab is either extremely patient or hibernates regularly. After exhausting my supplies in taking it down, I salvaged what meat I could. Very chewy, but not unpleasant. Looking across the beach, I spot many similar mounds of sand. I must keep moving; daylight is coming.
Lesser Wisp `None `170 `17 `27 KM/H `None `Enemy `Ranged `Wisps appear as black masks that are encompassed entirely by bright orange and yellow flames. Wisps are not living beings, and are instead created either deliberately by a greater entity or as a consequence of nature. They have the ability to channel their flame into a beam that erupts at a medium distance. It is suggested by Risk of Rain 2 logbook entries that all forms of Wisps are forged by a species known as Grovetenders. `Despite what their floating figure may suggest, Wisps are incapable of flight movement-wise. They also cannot jump or climb ropes, instead wandering around and waiting for the player to come into range. When a survivor is in its line of sight, the Wisp will expel its flame forward in a line, dealing slightly more damage than a Lemurian. The Wisp's attack can damage players relatively far away by reaching over gaps, despite not being able to cross ledges. `Desolate Forest, Dried Lake, Damp Caverns, Magma Barracks, summoned by Blazing Colossus, spawn on Ancient Wisp death `BASE ` Field Notes: Characterized by their constant flame, the Wisps are not living beings. Each Wisp has a mask in its center, where all the fire erupts from. The Wisps are able to concentrate their heat into a long range heat blast, capable of scorching anything in its path. On taking heavy damage, the fuel powering the Wisp detonates, sending the mask soaring clear through the air. How they function is a mystery to me. While I've seen 'deactivated' masks all around this world, the only time I've spotted Wisps is around me, as if someone creates them specifically to kill me..
Greater Wisp `None `470 `23 `27 KM/H `None `Enemy `Ranged `The Greater Wisp is a larger and stronger version of the Wisp, with their flames burning a more intense and voluminous green color. Their masks are now much more skull-like in shape. In addition, they possess "arms" seemingly made from the same boney material that's made from their masks, also fully engulfed in their flames. `Greater Wisps behave much like their lesser predecessors, being unable to cross ledges, jump, fly or climb ladders. However, they make up for it by having much more attack, and more than double the health. Their attack is largely the same as the Wisp's, only hitting harder and with roughly double the range. Being larger in size and boasting higher health, Greater Wisps are immune to light knockback, and can only be immobilized by stuns. Greater Wisps usually spawn in groups of 1-3 at a time, and always appear in pairs from the body of a slain Ancient Wisp. `Desolate Forest, Dried Lake, Damp Caverns `BASE ` Field Notes: Oh lord. These.. Greater Wisps, as I have grown to call them, are absolutely terrifying to face. Tougher then the Rock Golem, faster then the Lemurian, and harder hitting then both combined. Unlike the lesser Wisps, the Greater Wisp has two arms capable of typical motion. They burn a brilliant green which pierces straight though my sun visor. Their combat abilities are unprecedented; I can be clear 200m away, and they still manage to hit me square in the chest. I must stay hidden.. before they find me again.
Jellyfish `None `85 `7 `40 KM/H `Fly `Enemy `Melee `The Jellyfish bears much resemblance to real-life jellyfish, with a few distinguishing differences. The translucent body of the Jellyfish houses a human-looking brain, from which their tentacles are connected from. The existence of a brain in the jellyfish may suggest intelligence, sentience, or sapience. It is unknown if it possesses any of those qualities. Instead of producing venom, Jellyfish administer electrostatic shocks. Finally, Jellyfish fly through the air using gases they absorb from the ground and convert to energy to propel themselves. `The Jellyfish is always seen flying in from the corner of the screen, usually from a diagonal angle that is above the survivor. It makes a beeline straight towards their target and gain a burst of speed when within close proximity to the player. Jellyfish then try their best to stay as close to the player as possible, dealing low but continuous damage on contact. Unlike creatures of similar mass to the Jellyfish, they cannot be knocked back by light attacks. they can only be knocked back with stuns. `Desolate Forest, Dried Lake, Sky Meadow `BASE ` Field Notes: An airborne creature, capable of flight using a combination of gases in its clear hull. Like the Jellyfish on earth, they also use pulsation to aid in locomotion; however, rather than a series of tentacles, they have two branches' made of many tentacles wrapped around themselves. Also like the Jellyfish, they have quite the sting, capable of penetrating my weather shielding. The same gases used for flight are used to create a very powerful electrostatic charge.
Trokk `None `300 `18 `15 KM/H `Teleport `Enemy `Melee `Trokks are unusual soft-tissued arthropod creatures that resemble tall stone pillars. They either repurpose natural rock, soil, and sediment into camouflage and armor, or somehow develop tough stone-like exoskeletons naturally. Aside from their rocky exterior, they possess a singular glowing horizontal slit-eye at the base of their bodies, where their four insectoid legs are present. Trokks are ambush predators, waiting for prey to get close to them before quickly burrowing underground and appearing below them to crush them with their two massive mandibles. They apparently lack a digestive system, with their long mandibles measuring several times their base body size. If not for sustenance, it is unknown what purpose Trokks have for hunting prey. While not after prey, Trokks move extremely slowly, only slightly faster than the Bramble, presumably due to the sheer weight of their outward shell. `When the player is distant, Trokks will bury beneath the ground and reappear close to the player and bite them. Trokks will attempt to predict player movement when burrowing, and appear slightly in front of whatever direction they're moving. They do not naturally have a "hidden" state, like Tubers, which when paired with the Trokk's extremely sluggish method of attack, makes them extremely predictable. Trokks possess the same health as a Rock Golem, and are immune to staggers when not performing their attacks. This means that Trokks are most dangerous when the player is distracted, such as when dealing with a horde or a boss. `Desolate Forest `RTRN ` Field Notes: While resting in the shade of a massive tree, I was startled at what I thought was an earthquake. The ground shifted beneath my feet and I was suddenly thrown into the air. Beneath me was the gaping maw of a Trokk, and if I weren't already gripping my pistol it would've crushed me into sheet metal. Beyond the stone exterior of this strange walking log is some kind of vulnerable flesh like the inside of an alligator's mouth. With no space for a stomach I shudder at the thought of what happens to its victims.
Tuber `None `300 `17 `29 KM/H `Jump, Fall `Enemy `Melee `Tubers are a type of animate fungus that acquires nutrients by hunting prey in an ambush predator fashion. They are quadruped in nature and resemble an upside-down turnip in appearance. They have a unique protrusion at the top of their heads that bears three burgundy-colored spherical growths, the largest one up highest. The Tuber hunts by digging itself down until just the protrusion on its head pokes out, sporting its berry-like growths to lure prey. Once the Tuber detects prey from the seismic vibrations, it will launch out of the ground and use its powerful jaws lined with four oversized conical teeth to attack. `Tubers will burrow into the ground and stay in a passive state until a player comes near them. When in this state, they take half damage from all attacks and cannot be targeted by homing projectiles. This state cannot be interrupted by damaging them. Once a target enters a Tuber's range, or enough time has passed without one, it will leap out of the ground and lunge towards them to attack. Once uprooted, Tubers will behave similarly to Rock Golems or Sand Crabs, moving towards survivors and attacking once in range. In this state, they cannot be staggered but can be stunned. `Dried Lake, Damp Caverns `RTRN ` Field Notes: The Tuber is reminiscent of the small plants I cared for back on the ship, Nestling themselves deep in the ground, they hide from prey and wait for vibrations to initiate their fanged attack. Like fighting a giant antlion, sometimes the best strategy was to lure them out by tossing spent magazines. I tried stones and other bait, but their responses to the bait seemed dependant on some unseen quality. The behavior of the beasts on the planet continue to concern me I feel like all eyes are on me despite how natural these animals seem from a distance.
Mushrum `None `160 `17 `22 KM/H `None `Enemy `Melee `Mushrums are an overgrown bipedal species of fungus. Their stalk and gills are an earth dark brown color, with their caps bearing a reddish-orange wet texturing. Mushrums possess false eyes on their stalks meant to intimidate and scare away potential predators. They emit massive clusters of poisonous purple spores to then feed on the dead matter by planting their feet and feeding on it via their mycelium. `The Mushrum, upon seeing a player, will begin to move towards them slowly. when within range, the Mushrum will hunch down towards the ground and shake off a cloud of purple spores, dealing constant damage and obscuring the player's view. The Mushrum cannot jump or climb, making them easy to outmaneuver. `Damp Caverns `BASE ` Field Notes: I have arrived in an even stranger land. After recovering from my sudden.. teleportation, I noticed that my suit was flashing warnings about air filtration. All across the landscape were giant fungi, some as tall as trees. When approaching a large bulbous mushroom, it suddenly sprouted out the ground, jumping a few feet in the air then landing on two nubby feet. At this point my air filtration warning went from yellow to red, and I began to have difficulties breathing.. While sentient, these mushrums were not very intelligent. It had what looked like three eyes, but it could not navigate very well, implying that those may be fake eyes to scare predators. It also had no mouth to eat, but would plant itself over corpses, slowly absorbing nutrients through its root-like feet.. 
Spitter `None `240 `19 `18 KM/H `None `Enemy `Ranged `Spitters are creatures unlike any other on Petrichor V, instead resembling artificially created organisms or perhaps purposed scavengers made to dispose of toxic waste or carrion. Spitters are pale beige bipedal aberrations, possessing 4 limbs, two for walking, each terminating in three sharp digits, excepting the upper “arms” which have opposable sharp thumbs as well. They possess a large head with no neck, which splits in half vertically to reveal their mouth, lined with stout pointed teeth. The head has two large circular yellow eyes on both sides opposite of the mouth. Spitters sport orange-brown colored lines upon their back, and their extremities are stained with a darker shade of drab green, presumably from rummaging through the toxic bile, sewage or biological waste they filter through. In addition, Spitters have a relatively short tail, reaching half their body height when fully extended. Whether this tail is prehensile, or even has a purpose, is unknown. Lastly, like their name implies, Spitters are able to reel their bodies backward thanks to their cartilaginous middle skeletal structure, and by violently lashing forward and gnashing their teeth together, spit and subsequently detonate the bile expelled from their mouth. `Spitters have below average stats, and don’t possess good mobility, lacking the ability to climb ropes, cross ledges, or jump, but they’re some of the few enemies capable of directly aiming at the player from range in any angle via their spit attack. Despite their immobility, Spitters can still remain dangerous over large distances, ledges, and elevation differences. Aside from their freedom over open areas and sight-lines, Spitters attack incredibly slowly between each attack instance, they are susceptible to stuns and staggers whilst not charging up their spitting attack. In clusters, Spitters pose a much larger threat. By lowering the amount of time between every attack, a group of Spitters can quickly overwhelm players with sheer area denial. `Damp Caverns, Hive Cluster `BASE ` Field Notes: Alas, another hostile creature. This one's nature certainly betrays its precocious appearance. It even seems to be vexed by my retaliation. What a petulant fellow. His snapping maw hurls orange bile. The acidic mucus must be detonated by the gnashing teeth- conceivably similar to our picric acid. Fascinating, how could this have arisen? Post-mortem I was able to discover the source of the creature's impressive flexibility. Aside from the skull, mandible, and teeth, the skeleton is highly cartilaginous!
Child `None `125 `14 `24 KM/H `Jump, Fall, Climb `Enemy `Melee `Children are small humanoid beings, vaguely resembling human children. Their entire body glows a singular, warm, bright yellow color, with dark dotted accentuations lined in a semicircle formation downwards from their neck. Children lack any facial features, instead having a slight inward indentation where one’s face would be, highlighted in a brighter yellow color. Children can often be found in groups, typically “playing” or otherwise spending time with each other, but they also appear in solitude. Despite their carefree appearance and seemingly innocent aura, they are aggressive to survivors and presumably other creatures. Children seem to be able to project short, concentrated blasts of energy from their fingertips, specifically when their hands are in a “finger gun” position. This appears to be their main method of self defense and offense. `Children possess average stats, slightly above the Lemurian’s, boasting slightly more speed and health. When in range of the player, the Child will point in a finger-gun fashion and shoot a point-blank range blast with an average cooldown. Children are susceptible to staggers and stuns, and often appear in large groups, typically along with Parents, solidifying their similarities to Lemurians as a horde-fodder enemy. Children are one of 4 enemies capable of climbing and attacking on ropes, the other three being Lynx Tribe, Lemurian and Clay Men. `Sky Meadow `BASE ` Field Notes: These small beings fill me with dread.. From a distance I can see them frolicking among the rocks- playing with the other ghostly 'children'. I don't know how else to describe them, they seem so innocent until I approach. Once I am spotted it as if some wicked switch is flipped and I am their plaything. While I can defeat the small groups, I fear I am only sealing my doom once their small, destroyed bodies are found.
Parent `None `315 `15 `24 KM/H `Jump, Fall `Enemy `Melee `Parents are tall, imposing humanoids. Their entire figure glows a white bright yellow color, with dark red cavities pierced in a semicircle formation downwards on their chest. Parents have an exaggerated upper body, with their shoulders tapering off straight down from their "head", which lacks a neck, and instead consists of a tall top-rounded tube shape with a pitch black vertical line slitting across their head, outlined by an intense red color. Their forearms are massive, ending in hulking four-digit hands, both of which they use to smash the ground with. Parents bear a pronounced ribcage outline, casting a heavy shadow on their midsection. Curiously, they also possess a linea alba leading down to a navel. Despite this, their life cycle resemble nothing that of a human's, let alone any known carbon based lifeform's. Parents are surrounded by a constant heaving shine, trailing upwards in sharp lines. `Parents are faster than the average tank and heavy hitter enemies. They slam their fists down to the ground on a medium cooldown, in a wide area in front of them. They are faster and slightly tougher than Sand Crabs, but possess a significantly lower damage stat. Parents can jump, but not climb ropes or fall off of ledges. This makes them particularly lacking in vertical reach, despite their tall stature. Climbing up a rope effectively neutralizes any Parent attack coming one's way. `Sky Meadow, Hive Cluster `BASE ` Field Notes: A deadly force, they rush at me mad with grief and rage. Parents will slam the ground; their only aim to crush the butcher of their offspring. Their powerful blows open great lashes in the quaking ground. Though my guilt almost stays my hand, I cannot let them keep me from surviving this nightmarish planet. I know it is impossible to quell their fury; so instead I must end it.
Imp `None `310 `13 `25 KM/H `Jump, Fall, Teleport `Enemy `Melee `Imps are mysterious vaguely humanoid entities that are a dull bluish-black in coloration, lacking a neck, with single, bright red eye embedded in a gaping hole slit vertically where one’s head would be. Black Imps have four limbs, with the upper limbs ending in two digits and a thumb, both razor sharp and discolored in a dried blood red. Their lower legs aren’t used in a traditional sense, instead floating above the ground with ominous red particles trailing off their extremities. Their “head” breaks off at the top into two points, resembling horns, albeit made from the same material as the rest of their body. These appendages can be interpreted as sensory organs, or balancing receptors responsible for keeping them balanced while they’re afloat. Black Imps have the ability to fade away and materialize in a different location, instantly teleporting between the two points. They use this to quickly close the distance to their enemies and rend them apart with their claws. `Imps have lopsided stats, boasting triple the health of a Lemurian while being slightly faster and dealing less damage per strike. Black Imps move by floating short distances to their target, or by teleporting longer distances, including from different elevations. They cannot climb ladders, but their teleportation ability allows them to move around much more efficiently than most other enemies. Black Imps quickly strike twice at a time, making their rather low damage stat misleading. `Damp Caverns, Sky Meadow, Sunken Tomb, summoned by the Artifact of Origin `BASE ` Field Notes: Oh. Fear. The Imp causes me fear, with its razor sharp talons and its one eye, locked into mine through my helmet. The Imp uses a propellant to hover above the ground, giving it superior mobility over everything.. including me. Unlike the other fauna on this planet, the black imp is aggressive to all other species. Is the imp also stranded here? The Black Imp can move from location to location, seemingly instantly. I refuse to believe that the Imp has teleportation; that is for fairy tales and quantum physicists. I won't accept that it can achieve something biologically that the human race couldn't achieve in its entire history.
Clay Man `None `140 `11 `22 KM/H `Jump, Fall, Climb `Enemy `Melee `Clay Men are short humanoid beings covered entirely with jet-black tar. Their bodies vaguely resemble male human musculature, with their otherwise only other distinguishing feature being the urn on their head, which is siam-yellow colored with a single embossed gold horizontal line streaked along its middle. They wield a fully golden sword that shines with a light green sheen, and a purple gem embedded in its pommel. `The Clay Man moves quickly towards the player, sharply thrusting its sword forward when within attack range and dealing rather low amounts of damage, on a low cooldown. The Clay man possesses the ability to roll, allowing it to quickly cover ground in a burst of speed. However, Clay men can still be hit while rolling, and especially susceptible to stuns and staggers. Clay Men are one of 4 enemies capable of climbing and attacking on ropes, the other three being Lynx Tribe, Children and Lemurians. `Ancient Valley, Sunken Tomb, Temple of the Elders, Risk of Rain `BASE ` Field Notes: Quick with his sword and quicker with his feet; the agility of these clay 'people' is unexpected with a form so roughly shaped. When faced with one of the few creatures here which I feel some humanity in, my aloneness closes in. Why do they have clay pots on their heads? Could it be protection from the cruel reality, or maybe just to hide the scars from this brutal planet..
Mechanical Spider `None `240 `9 `27 KM/H `Jump, Fall `Enemy `Ranged `Mechanical Spiders are four-legged mechanical constructs composed of a matte-gray metal with evident rusting and oil spillage all throughout their small form. Their jointed legs are mounted atop a small base, with a horizontal green light located below a small radar-like system. Mechanical Spiders are able to expel small bursts of heat or cold from their base, depending on the environment they inhabit. `Mechanical Spiders are minor pests meant to overwhelm the survivor with their numbers and fast attacks. They possess a high health stat relative to their body mass, but have extremely low damage attacks. Mechanical Spiders are unable to jump, climb ladders or fall off of ledges, but can still be interrupted with small staggers and stuns, making them especially susceptible to even regular attacks. They shoot a single projectile at a time on a low cooldown that has high range and travels along the ground in a straight line. Due to their high spawn rates, Mechanical Spiders are only really a threat when in overwhelming numbers, where their combined attacks threaten low-mobility survivors with their area denial. `Ancient Valley, Magma Barracks `BASE ` Field Notes: The malware of our age! These mechanical parasites were probably lurking on the ship before the crash. Pirates will use these bugs to collect especially valuable cargo, redirect transmission signals, or even hijack ships. Spiders can be programmed with all kinds of malicious objectives. In general they are quite difficult to find and eradicate on large vessels, but now that they're loose they seem to be able to operate outside of their software. They have retained their defense capabilities, and are risky to engange. Though, I wonder, how long will they continue to run without access to an electrical grid?
Bighorn Bison `None `430 `17 `27 `None `Enemy `Melee `The Saturnian Bison, also known as the Bighorn Bison, is an enormous species of Bison native to the planet Saturn. They are much larger than earth bison and live in the Ancient Valley, and in the polar opposite of that region, the Magma Barracks. The Bighorn Bison has long and shaggy brown fur, and three yellow orbs which are assumed to be eyes perched vertically atop one another on its face. It has two large, spiraling horns coming off the top of its head, and four muscular legs. The Bighorn Bison has a pattern of light-brown fur in a ring around its neck. The purpose of this is unknown; perhaps it is used for mating, or maybe to tell each other apart, like giraffe and zebra's patterns. `Bighorn Bison are tanky enemies with surprising mobility. They walk slowly towards survivors and after a short windup, initiate a charge attack that advances them a large distance forward, dealing heavy damage in the process. Due to their large size, Bighorn Bison can cross one-tile gaps, and by extension use their attack to cross them. They cannot cross gaps larger than 2 tiles, as they cannot jump or drop off of ledges. They cannot be staggered but may still be stunned. `Ancient Valley, Magma Barracks `BASE ` Field Notes: The teleporter nearly launched me into a steaming dung heap. I could not have anticipated such an enormous beast being the source. More impressive than their rumbling bellows is the bighorn's charge. Their many tons of muscle produce a crushing slam of horn and matted hair. When they are not stampeding after me I have observed these monsters using their massive heads to bludgeon rocks and fights amongst themselves. How can they expend so much energy on fruitless activity? Are they merely trying to keep from freezing?
Swift `None `105 `12 `72 KM/H `Fly `Enemy `Melee `Swifts are inorganic avian creatures resembling polished cave stalactites with wings. They are a muted emerald gray in coloration and bear resemblance to Earth birds, though with a large, dart shaped pointed “beak” in place of a head. Swifts are made of a tough, extremely sharp type of rock, that is able to pierce and bore through most surfaces and materials. Swifts’ sole two limbs are their wings, making them unable to land and walk on ground. This anatomy implies that Swifts perpetually remain afloat for their entire existence, as they haven’t been observed to rest or need sustenance. Swifts’ main method of attack is by diving beak-first into their prey. Upon miss, they strike the surface with such force that their beaks embed into the ground, forcing them to wiggle their way out and back into flight again. `Swifts hover above the ground, passing through obstacles, and typically try to align themselves in a diagonal angle above survivors to dive towards them. Whenever a Swift hits a surface, regardless if it was successful, it’ll embed itself into the ground and be unable to act for one second, and then recover back to flight. Swifts aren’t difficult to dodge, but they’re most dangerous when the player is preoccupied with something else, such as climbing a ladder or kiting a horde/boss during a teleporter event. `Ancient Valley, Temple of the Elders `RTRN ` Field Notes: These flying stones manage to stay airborne despite their shale armor. Like a thousand darts thrown from the sun, they dive so swiftly toward me that their beaks slam into the ground. I've yet to see a surface that they cannot puncture, and I'm shocked that their beaks never seem worn. Their predictive aim is troubling, and they seem to know where I'm headed before I do. I've witnessed packs of these strange birds circling like vultures in the distant sky, though I've never witnessed any of them scavenging for food. Attempts to fashion their armor into new blades have resulted into nothing but chips in my knife.
Whorl `None `230 `17 `22 KM/H `None `Enemy `Ranged `Whorls are an aquatic cephalopod species with a deep dark purple coloration and a light purple curled circular shell, with alternating pale cyan lines across it. They have a bright lime-green eye positioned below their shell. Rather than swimming, Whorls propel themselves through the sunken depths using gas, which seeps through the ground from various crevices and deposits littered throughout Petrichor V's oceans. Through unknown means, Whorls are able to channel a bright green focused point of energy and expel it forwards by lashing their tentacles outward, creating a powerful beam of energy. `Whorls have above average stats. While slightly behind in toughness compared to Sand Crabs, they attack faster, which when paired with their long range makes them a formidable foe in the Sunken Tomb. Despite their appearance and method of locomotion, Whorls cannot fly, jump, cross ledges or climb ladders. They are immune to staggers but not stuns. Whorls can be compared to a weaker Greater Wisp, having similar range but lower damage and health. Often appearing in groups, they make up for these shortcomings by being numerous and covering a lot of ground, forcing survivors to resort to constantly dodge their attacks by jumping or retreat. `Sunken Tomb `BASE ` Field Notes: Day 8. I was awoken by an abrupt collision of something hard against my suit. A volley of sensors screamed in my ears as a hairline fracture arced across my vision. The hard shell of a monstrous "Whorl" nearly compromised my air lock. If I hadn't had a small tube of polymer sealant from the astrotrain I would not be recording this now. These carapaced organisms propel themselves with some form of gas-propulsion. Despite their similar appearance to the nautili of old, they do not use a bellows-like system for locomotion, but a steady streaming of gas through their curling shell. I wonder if this heavy armor prevents them from attaining higher altitudes, constrained to hover among the land creatures.
Macrobe `None `90 `14 `32 KM/H `Jump, Fall `Enemy `Melee `Macrobes are single-celled organisms that have managed to reach a massive size through biological means. Their cell barrier is adorned with short thorny hairs, and hides their color-muted innards, at the very front of which is a mouth-part resembling avian beaks composed of soft tissue. Marcobes possess two exposed, fleshy appendages at the far back end of their bodies, which split off into 2 digits. These appendages assist the Marcobe in locomotion, by weakly hopping off the ground in small strides. Their main method of traversal is swimming through water as if they were a normal-sized cell. `Macrobes are fragile, small enemies that can be seen as the inverse to Mechanical Spiders, denying vertical area instead of ground. They make up for their low damage and health stats with sheer numbers and having vastly improved mobility. Macrobes have the ability to make long angled jumps to then glide down slowly and damage the player on contact. In addition to this, they're able to jump normally, fall off of ledges, but cannot climb ladders. As with most low body-mass monsters, Macrobes are susceptible to both staggers and stuns. Macrobes are one of two "Macrobial Creatures" in the game, the other being the Macrobic Predator. This quality grants them a regenerating shield that must be damaged first before being able to hurt their health bar. `Sunken Tomb, Hive Cluster `RTRN ` Field Notes: Sinking into an endless lake, I was caught off-guard by these huge cellular beasts. Bounding towards me, I can almost identify their internal anatomy behind thick membranes - How is it possible that some sort of microbe could get this large? Can this really be a single cell? Rough, thorn-like cilia coat its surface and it's flagellum serves as a razor sharp whip. The water doesn't seem to impede it at all, though its strange bouncing behavior may be a result of its attempts to pursue me under heavy water pressure. I'm weary of the force it seems to exert even within these conditions. My oxygen supply can't afford any leaks.
Macrobic Predator `None `315 `16 `36 KM/H `Jump, Fall `Enemy `Melee `The Macrobic Predator is a large highly developed macroorganism with arthropod-like features. The Macrobic Predator displays a multitude of qualities common among regular fauna, which include a visible mouth with teeth present inside it lined with four pincers, two on each side, along with several antennae-like appendages that penetrate their cell barrier along their entire body, and four anthropomorphic arms. Macrobic Predators are able to retract their membranous exterior near the front of their mouthpart, and fling their red, fleshy mandibles at prey. `Macrobic Predators are tough, fast combatants that can attack both horizontally and vertically. Macrobic Predators Attack by extending their mandibles towards the player. Depending on their position relative to viable targets, Macrobic Predators will attack either horizontally, or if their target is above/below them, vertically. These attacks can go through terrain. Macrobic Predators are one of two "Macrobial Creatures" in the game, the other being the Macrobe. This quality grants them a regenerating shield that must be damaged first before being able to hurt their health bar. `Magma Barracks, Risk of Rain `RTRN ` Field Notes: Some kind of massive insect, this creature snaps like a viper and skitters like an ant. It shouldn't be possible at such a scale to move so abruptly and yet it does. Similar to the Macrobe, this monster is some kind of predatory cell. With a massive rope of nerves at its core, I can only image it acts on instinct alone. I dug into a corpse to see if the spinal rope could sustain me in this toxic hive, but I found my arms stuck to the thick membrane and I had to use my knife to remove the non-newtonian gel. It'd make a great trap for prey, but I don't have time to test that theory.
Gup `None `375 `27 `25 KM/H `Jump, Fall `Enemy `Melee `Gups, Geeps and Gips are rotund gelatinous life forms with two flowery antennae, six appendages on their lower body, and four yellow eyes. Their bodies consist of a single orange mass with sickly green/yellow bubbling patches covering the border of their skin barrier. The collective species appears to undergo rapid, gigantically sized "cell division" when threatened and split into lesser fragments of the prior organism. This begins with Gups being the progenitors of the division, followed by Geeps, and finally Gips. Geeps and Gips are smaller and are a lighter orange color, shifting to yellow eventually. It is unknown if each individual Gup remains the same entity upon splitting, or if their cognition "dies" and is rapidly transferred into their lesser forms, assuming they're sapient to begin with. Gups, Geeps and Gips, all share one defense mechanism; momentarily shrinking and shaping their bodies into spikes, which then extend outward in a forceful burst. `Gups move towards nearby players. Once in range, they attack by extending spikes out of their body, dealing damage all around them. Once a Gup is killed, it will split into two smaller Geeps, each splitting into two Gips. `Hive Cluster `BASE ` Field Notes: It is quite rare that I smell anything through my respirator. I could not have been prepared for how bizarre no longer having a sense of smell is. However, there have been a rare few occasions when I caught some trace aroma- generally somewhat bitter on this planet, but I savor them greedily. When I encountered this gelatinous beast I was assailed by a sweet smell! A strangely fruity scent.. Oh, how it brings me back to a more innocent time! As I struck the congealed blimp of a creature it divided and seemed to gain energy. With each blow more of the saccharine odor escaped the monster. I must admit, I may have been overzealous in my attack..
Evolved Lemurian `None `125 `14 `54 KM/H `Jump, Fall, Fly `Enemy `Melee `Evolved Lemurians are a winged variant of the Lemurian. Their main distinguishing trait are their extended digits, which developed into full blown wings. Just like their terrestrial relatives, their bodies are partially covered with armor. Unlike them, their scales are of a red bordo color, with a lighter shade of red lining their abdomen and inner limbs. `Evolved Lemurians passively fly through the air, ignoring obstacles and trying to remain close to the player. They attack by charging towards their target from an angle in a flurry of swipes. Occasionally, either passively or after missing an attack, Evolved Lemurians will ground themselves and proceed on foot, behaving as a normal Lemurian, using a bite as their method of attack. Evolved Lemurians have the same mass as regular Lemurians, being susceptible to staggers and stuns. `Hive Cluster, Magma Barracks `BASE ` Field Notes: Could this be a distant cousin of the Lemurians below? An ancient evolutionary leap? These airborne reptiles do not interact with the ground Lemurians except to harass them occasionally. Perhaps there is some kind of natural feud between the species? It is the membranous skin that attaches their long arms to their body which enables their flight. Each wingtip culminates in vicious talons. When they come in flocks these winged Lemurians are capable of great carnage.
Elder Lemurian `None `405 `23 `18 KM/H `Jump, Fall `Enemy `Melee `The Elder Lemurian, like its lesser subspecies, the Lemurian, is an anthropomorphic lizard creature. Elder Lemurians have scales lining their spine and tail, they are much larger and taller than regular Lemurians and similarly wear shoulder plates and armor. Their scales are a muted olive green color, as opposed to the iridescent purple of Lemurians. `Compared to Lemurians, Elder Lemurians are slower and bulkier, but are deadlier. They lumber towards the player upon sight. Once in range, they breath flames in an area in front of them, rooting themselves in place for a few seconds. `Temple of the Elders, Risk of Rain `BASE ` Field Notes: Seems to be very large version of the Lemurians; perhaps this great lizard is a queen? With similar armor and much thicker skin, it took much more to bring down this foe. She moves much slower and posses a powerful scorching blast. I would willingly give up some of my dwindling rations to explore the Lemurian tunnels unnoticed. My mind envisions great communal caverns and many spectacular subterranean dwellings. Do great legions of Lemurians walk under my feet?
Lemurian Calvary `None `200 `17 `268 KM/H `Jump `Enemy `Hybrid `The Lemurian Cavalry appear as bordo-red Lemurians wearing the same shoulder plates as Lemurians and Elder Lemurians, alongside a downwards curved helmet, with a sharp point at the bottom, and a red plume sprouting from the top. The Lemurian Cavalry ride a domesticated species of Boarlit, appearing larger, with longer tusks, and a coat of muddy beige and black fur/skin. Lemurian Cavalries uniquely wield weapons, specifically a serrated spear, contrary to other Lemurians, who fight unarmed. Whether Lemurian Cavalries are an elite ranking position in the Lemurian faction, or if different Lemurian colonies have rivalry between them to employ different methods of attack and evolution, is left ambiguous. `Lemurian Cavalries are dynamic enemies, with high total durability, mobility and fast attacks. Normally, the Lemurian Cavalry will charge towards the player atop their mounts, lashing out wildly with their spear, displacing and forcefully knocking survivors up, continuing their charge afterward and repeating the process on the way back. The Lemurian Lancer and the Boar are considered two different enemies, and if one dies, the other will keep attacking. If the Boar dies first, the Lemurian will hop off and start attacking with a different moveset. It has two different attacks. The first is a pounce and thrust, indicated by the Lemurian Lancer glowing a red sheen. This attack can allow the Lemurian Lancer to go through terrain. For their second attack, they will throw quickly throw a high velocity blue glowing spear at the player. Their behavior is consistent, and will always perform the pounce attack first and the spear throw second. If the Lemurian Lancer dies first, the Boar will behave similarly to a Boarlit, with the addition of a charge attack that knocks survivors upwards. The Lemurian Cavarly’s resistances and mobility are as follows: While mounted, can jump but not drop from ledges or climb ladders, can be stunned but not staggered. The lemurian lancer can jump but cannot climb, their pounce travels through obstacles directly towards the player, cannot drop from ledges or climb ladders. Can be stunned but staggered only if not currently attacking. The boar cannot jump, drop from ledges or climb ladders. Can only be stunned. `Temple of the Elders, Risk of Rain, Desolate Forest, Dried Lake `RTRN ` Field Notes: I found a group of red Lemurians resting in the dilapidated ruins with domesticated boars alongside them. I've never seen a red species outside of the flying types, though I doubt these are any more welcoming. With great spears and flamboyant helmets, they resemble cavalry of times past, and I'm not equipped to face any chariots head-on. In the distance I can see two of them sparring atop their beasts. They attack with sharp agility and acrobatic prowess that I hope to never experience.
Temple Guard `None `420 `17 `15 KM/H `None `Enemy `Ranged `Temple Guards are artificial constructs thought to be constructed by Providence using the design Mithrix showed him. Temple Guards are made of a heavy turquoise metal alloy. They consist of a humanoid torso mounted on a mobile quadruped base, which is lined with a red sash stylized with golden accents. They have two cannons in place of upper limbs that shoot simultaneously at targets. Temple Guards have the unusual ability to materialize and construct themselves spontaneously in the presence of intruders. `Temple Guards serve as slow, persistent artillery enemies that can threaten any survivor in their range. They possess a high health pool, but are relatively immobile, being unable to jump, drop from ledges, or climb ladders. Temple Guard are able to directly shoot at any player in a massive range and at any angle. In between attacks, they may buff their own defense, indicated by a shield icon appearing above them. While their damage may appear low, they always shoot two shots at a time. Their projectiles are telegraphed by a firing animation and two circular targets that indicate where they will hit. Due to their large mass, they are resistant to staggers but not stuns. `Temple of the Elders, Risk of Rain `BASE ` Field Notes: A robot creature that assembles itself.. I have not seen them materialize other than when I unknowingly trigger their presence. I cannot believe this is indeed a machine- and yet it is made from some alloy and uses heavy artillery! Was this on the ship, or are these guards a naturally occuring 'species' here? My suit's scanners are unable to detect any manufacturer's signature. They seem to be determined not to let me pass. They attack with unlimited focus.
Archer Bug `None `82 `6 `36 KM/H `Fly `Enemy `Ranged `Archer Bugs are large, turquoise flying four-legged arthropods with pale yellow-orange wings and four green glowing compound eyes. They have two black antennae and four black legs. They build nests with no known purpose, presumably for reproduction and eusociality. This makes them similar to eusocial Earth insects, such as bees or wasps. Archer Bugs possess an enlarged abdomen, from which they’re able to excrete and forcefully shoot out caustic spit. `Archer bugs are a fast, horde type enemy meant to be especially dangerous in groups. They fly perpetually, passing through obstacles, attempting to align themselves in a circle around the player. Archer bugs attack by shooting evenly-spread triple projectile spit that individually deals low damage. Archer bugs cannot be staggered, but can be stunned and knocked back. Archer bugs often spawn in groups, so while their individual stats are rather low, their triple shots multiplied by their quantity can quickly deny areas and restrict movement, forcing survivors to maneuver around their shots dexterously and making them a high priority. `Hive Cluster, Temple of the Elders `BASE ` Field Notes: Such aggravating creatures! These insects come in droves- as a group their wings create a maddening whine. Even the other creatures seems disturbed by their presence. Though they are not particularly strong, the circling insects certainly frustrate me. A small amount of their projectile spit managed to penetrate one of the layers of my suit. It was extremely caustic. A festering rash has formed in the area, but doesn't seem to be spreading.
Bramble `None `300 `10 `18 KM/H `None `Enemy `Ranged `Brambles are an aggressive plant-like species that sprout from a mobile quadruped plant base. Their most notable feature is a extendable piece of vine that connects their head to their body, allowing them great vertical freedom. They have two mouths with two mandibles each, and a shining blue eye. Brambles are capable of spitting caustic venomous projectiles that are expelled from both of their mouths simultaneously. Despite their mouth being lined with 'teeth', they do not bite to attack. It is unknown if Brambles are carnivorous or if their mouths have a use otherwise. `Brambles are turret-like enemies that make up for their low health and damage by being able to reach the player at almost any height and overwhelm them with continuous projectile fire. Bramble's heads are susceptible to attacks along with their body. This trivializes them if dealt with quickly as they have a long cooldown after attacking. Dodging their first shot allows for dispatching them quickly. They are also unable to cross ledges or gaps, jump, or climb ropes and are susceptible to staggers and stuns. `Temple of the Elders, Damp Caverns, Sky Meadow `RTRN ` Field Notes: While walking through overgrown ruins I found myself surrounded by strange rustling that I could not place. Stepping into a massive temple, vines whipped the entryway shut and the ivy began slithering down the walls. These living Brambles spit caustic venom and I'm thankful to only have holes left in my gloves. Their hypnotic sway distills fear in me and I recognize some higher intelligence in their movements. The bark at their base facilitates some kind of locomotions, though I can't identify any apparant muscular system inside that would drive it. After the encounter, the resulting coughs and spasms left me on edge as I scaled the tower and left the echoes behind me.
Tiny Imp `None `22 `3 `24 KM/H `Jump, Fall `Misc `Special `Tiny Imps are infant Black Imps that aren't capable of combat or teleportation. They typically inhabit small black urns and are forced to run away from predators when their habitats are overturned. `Once spawned, the imps will immediately scatter away from the player in different directions, frequently hopping weakly to try and escape their demise. `Summoned from Imp Shrines `BASE ` Field Notes: I seem to have found the one creature on this planet that DOESN'T want to kill me. These small, leathery creatures are spawned from vases I sometimes spot in the ruins. They seem to stay in packs, and frequently carry useful treasure. Immediately after spawning, these tiny imps run in all directions. While I do feel a bit.. awful.. about killing what seems to be the equivalent of children, I need the treasure they hold if I'm to survive. I'm sorry.
Lynx Tribe `None `160 `14 `27 KM/H `Jump, Fall, Climb `Misc `Hybrid `Lynx Tribals are anthropomorphic feline creatures that reside in the lush jungles of Petrichor V. They are masked, wield weapons, and wear various trinkets and accessories all over their bodies that indicate a high degree of sentience and civilization. They are part of a religion which worships the Lynx Totems. `The Lynx Tribe consists of three distinct creatures, each with their own stats and methods of attack. The scout behaves identically to a Lemurian, chasing the player and attacking with a medium range melee slash. The hunter charges forward and thrusts with its spear when survivors are in range. The archer actively avoids survivors and tends to climb to high elevations. Shoots medium velocity arrows in an arc towards the exact position of survivors, and uses a short slash to attack survivors at close range. `Summoned from Lynx Totems `RTRN ` Field Notes: I glanced to one side, trying to get my bearings. By sheer luck, my eyes picked up something barely visible, so still it could be mistaken for a rock. A shiver ran down my spine as I realized it was alive. I hadn't heard anything approach; how long had it been watching me? Why hadn't it attacked me? I suppose the creature had never seen anything like me. As we exchanged gazes, I noticed there were more of them. Gripped by fear, I shot a glance at my firearm which, in my hubris, was still in its holster. A twig snapped, and I immediately looked back to them, but they were gone. I walk slowly now. There could be one of these behind every blade of grass.
Colossus `Giant Stone Guardian `1400 `40 `20 KM/H `None `Boss `Melee `The Colossus is a gigantic humanoid stone construct, with mounds of moss resting on its shoulders. It has various red windows and architecture haphazardly incorporated into its body. Its head resembles a castle tower, with a large glass window serving as a “face”. `Upon spawning, the Colossus claps its hands spawning a Rock Golem, and will do so every time it claps its hands again. These claps will damage the player. When getting close to the Colossus, it will stomp the ground and deal heavy damage to survivors in a low area in front of it. `Desolate Forest, Dried Lake, Sunken Tomb, Ancient Valley `BASE ` Field Notes: A low groaning, lasting for a few days at least. From the relative safety of my drop pod I watched as a mountain rose to its knees, pushing itself up with arms of stone and dirt and twine. The Colossus appears as a cousin of the Rock Golem and share many similarities, from its red gaze to its stocky stature. Around its feet many smaller golems rose, joining it. In what possible ways could conventional weapons help Me? I've begun to find a dark humor in the absolute overkill that I face. This is simply ridiculous.
Wandering Vagrant `Gentle Protector `1400 `12 `24 KM/H `Fly `Boss `Ranged `It appears as a larger version of the Jellyfish. However, unlike the jellyfish, the Vagrant's head is occupied by mutiple colorful organs instead of one large brain. `The Vagrant quickly floats towards the player it's targeting. It deals no contact damage, instead attacking by creating six projectiles that quickly fly towards and detonate where the player was standing. `Desolate Forest, Dried Lake, Sky Meadow, Sunken Tomb `BASE ` Field Notes: Day 3. While looking through some wreckage of the old ship, I felt a hot sensation on my skin and a brilliant white flash. Over the horizon maybe 5 miles north I saw it, looming over the forest tops. It must be the size of a house, this thing. A massive variant of the jellyfish seen earlier; this behemoth hovers in the air, searching for something. The gas used to propel this beast bend the trees below it flat. When it spotted its prey, it sent out six bioluminescent orbs, all crashing towards the ground and incinerating the target. This Vagrant, as I've come to call it, seems to wander amidst the skies, followed by many jellyfish. On the occasion the clouds part, I swear I sometimes see hundreds of vagrants up there. What are they looking for?
Magma Worm `Ancient Lava Swimmer `1400 `55 `268 KM/H `None `Boss `Melee `The Magma Worm is a giant predator that is serpentine in form, having no appendages other than its three jaws. Its exterior is perpetually aflame, which serves the purpose of helping the creature burrow into the hard terrain, and also acts as a hunting tool. Due to the high calorie requirement that comes with its vast size, the worm spends most of its time hibernating underground. `The magma worm attacks by jumping up, through any platform and ground, and diving back down dealing damage on contact, leaving behind a patch of fire. `Desolate Forest, Dried Lake, Damp Caverns, Sky Meadow `BASE ` Field Notes: I've stumbled upon an old relic, notably with two distinct stone prongs. On approaching it it whirred to life, apparantly charging up. This seemed to disturb something deep and violent below the ground.. The Magma Worm exploded out of the ground, knocking me off my feet. While I struggled with shell shock, I saw it arc through the sky, then plunge back into the ground with another bang. Reaching about.. 200 meters, the worm moves extremely fast for its size. Permanently burning out of pores in its skin, the Magma Worm uses this flame as both a hunting tool and a way to melt through the ground quickly. Its small, beady eyes lurch around, looking for prey. With its massive size, the Magma Worm must either eat VAST amounts of food a day or hibernate for a very, very, very long time below ground.
Ancient Wisp `Banished And Chained `1470 `23 `18 KM/H `None `Boss `Ranged `The Ancient Wisp is the highest known form of wisp on Petrichor V. It is an inanimate entity in the form of a menacing helmet and a dilapidated suit of armor engulfed by vivid purple flames. It is able to project scalding hot pillars of lightning, scorching enemies and terrain alike in their wake. `The Ancient Wisp follows survivors in range, dealing no contact damage. Its only attack is summoning rows of lightning on the ground. This attack has a long cooldown, and is telegraphed by dots lining the area they'll strike one second prior. They can be dodged by standing between the gaps, or by jumping when the attack hits. Once the Ancient Wisp is killed, 2 Greater Wisps and 2 Wisps are spawned. `Damp Caverns, Sky Meadow `BASE ` Field Notes: Could this be the architect of the smaller wisps? Perhaps this Ancient Wisp is the puppeteer behind the fiery masks harassing me thus far, or is he also a devilish device of something greater..? The heat coming off the purple flames is extreme. Ferocious columns of lightning threaten to short-out my suit, or worse, turn me into a blistered husk. What fuels these violent, burning apparitions?
Lynx Totem `Nkuhana's Faithful `1210 `14 `18 KM/H `Jump `Boss `Support / Melee `The Lynx Totem is a tall stone structure engraved with various markings and covered in foliage. It is the subject of worship of the Lynx Tribe and the centerpiece of their religion. The towering structure is animated with the help of a Lynx Tribe shaman, who rests atop it. The Lynx Totem is capable of locomotion using two stubby legs. `Lynx Totem is a summoner boss and the only boss that can jump. It deals no contact damage, instead attacking in two different ways: Summoning four random Lynx Tribe members, two on both of its sides. If the Lynx Totem is elite, the summoned enemies will inherit its elite type. A ground pound move that deals damage at ground level and summons two blocks on both of its sides. `Damp Caverns, Sky Meadow, Temple of the Elders `RTRN ` Field Notes: Travelling through the fungal caverns, I kept seeing out of place rubble that trailed to nowhere. With no buildings in sight, I was shocked to see a brick wall in the distance. Little cat-like creatures with masks and weaponry danced around the structure, and I could hear them laugh with one another. They appeared to be practicing some kind of worship, though the structure looked unlike anything I've seen on this planet. More of them crawled out from the dirt nearby, but strangely I haven't seen any evidence of them resting or hiding in the soil prior to that. Luckily they were distracted - I don't know that I could take on a horde of that size, no matter how small they were. 
Imp Overlord `Lord of the Red Plane `1210 `27 `27 KM/H `Jump, Fall `Boss `Melee / Ranged `The Imp Overlord is a massive specie of Imp, with a multitude of red eyes strewn across its front body. The two appendages on the top of its head are elongated, and further split into two thinner sections. Its limbs are smaller in comparison to its body, ending in longer flexible digits that contort into sharp lashing claws when the Imp Overlord attacks. The Imp Overlord has a minor recessing line across its abdomen, within which hides a large eye that allows it to materialize flashes of red vapor that disintegrates anything in its path. Similarly to the Black Imp, the Imp Overlord's body violently splits in half upon death, with its numerous eyes floating momentarily before bursting in a horrifying display of gore. `The Imp Overlord has three attacks, and is one of the most mobile bosses in the game, as it is capable of teleportation. The Imp Overlord flails its arms towards the ground, damaging survivors over multiple damage instances in a low area towards the center of the ground. It tends to teleport directly to the position of survivors before initiating this attack. The Imp Overlord immediately charges towards a target direction, dealing heavy damage over multiple damage instances and traveling a long distance unless halted by environment. The Imp Overlord emits a horrible screech towards survivors that summons a horizontal red line of vapor traveling along the ground or air. This attack is telegraphed by a red line scanning the area it'll target. `Ancient Valley, Sunken Tomb, Hive Cluster, Magma Barracks, Temple of the Elders `BASE ` Field Notes: Oh, why me? My heart stopped when this great Imp manifested in previously empty space. So many horrendous eyes. With a gaping scream the Imp lets out a deadly red vapor. Some type of laser also trails me. This demon is just as baffling in its movement as the smaller one. Barely escaping the Imp's whipping grasp I landed a final blow. Its dying body split open at its meridian, displaying its innards like some ghastly flower. This monster is just as gruesome in death as it was in life.
Ifrit `Scion of the Infernal King `1500 `17 `45 KM/H `None `Boss `Melee `Ifrit is a massive tetrapod creature that has a slender anatomy. It is covered in dark orange rough scales with lighter orange scales lining its abdomen. It has two black horns curved downward, with one of them being chipped at its end. It possesses three digits on each limb ending in sharp claws, with broken chains worn on its forelimb and back limb. It has a long, thin tail, and along it and Ifrit's spine, a constant flaming trail. Ifrit's head shape is vaguely reptilian, with sharp teeth lined across its gum-less mouth. The inside of its maw is lit with a fiery glow, as are its eyes. `Ifrit is a mid-game boss with higher than average stats, that can influence the environment to immobilize players. Ifrit can trap survivors by spawning two tall black towers from two directions, preventing them from going farther forward or back. Ifrit's only damaging move is a massive downwards swipe with its forelimbs, which deals great damage in a large area in front of it, and additionally creates a wave of fire that travels along the ground. `Ancient Valley `BASE ` Field Notes: Could this be..? Tales I never believed recounted a horrible beast, fire incarnate. Scourge of another solar system, the Ifrit nearly wiped out an entire space colony before being chained and launched into the great black void. Supposedly the flaming jets that accompanied his roars could be seen for days as he drifted outwards. Great towers, what must have been the containment structure used to trap this monster, prevent his escape even on this forsaken plane. The only explanation I have for my surviving this legendary encounter is his many years drifting in space and having been fettered in this unforgiving, frozen wasteland.
Toxic Beast `Mother of Many `1460 `17 `33 KM/H `None `Boss `Melee / Support `Toxic Beast is a giant mammalian quadruped resembling Earth wild boar. Its shaggy dark blue fur is ridden with scars all throughout its body. It has four empty eyesockets, and excretes a green ooze from its nose and mouth. `The Toxic Beast attacks by charging at survivors, dealing contact damage with its lower body. This damage occurs very close to the ground, meaning it can be avoided entirely by simply standing on a small platform. It can additionally emit a piercing screech and summon many Boarlits. `Boar Beach, Magma Barracks, Hive Cluster, Temple of the Elders `BASE ` Field Notes: This goliath's body has been carved by this world, covered in numerous scars. The squealing queen had seen many battles. Her coarse hair growing in jagged patches between each old wound only increased her fearsome appearance. Hot breath from the boar's massive nose fogged up my helmet so badly that it was a marvel I was able to evade her stomping hooves overhead.
Cremator `Shielded Artillery `1150 `12 `45 KM/H `None `Boss `Melee / Ranged `The Cremator is a massive reptilian shelled creature resembling Earth tortoises. It is a charred black color all throughout, with its underside and head clad in a deep earthy orange color. Its shell houses multiple orifices that are able to violently expel molten projectiles in an artillery-like manner. The Cremator spends its time basking in the scalding magma of its habitat, seemingly resistant to its extreme heat. `The Cremator can only spawn inside of lava pools in the Magma Barracks, and moves horizontally alongside them. It attacks by shooting a multitude of projectiles towards the player with varying spread, indicated by white crosshairs before landing. It can also ram towards survivors who are close to it and damage them on contact with its maw. The Cremator takes reduced damage from its backside, and must be damaged in the head in order to take full damage. It is completely immune to all staggers and stuns. `Magma Barracks `BASE ` Field Notes: I could not believe my eyes as this creature erupted from the lava. My suit's temperature gauges screeched in warning. How can anything subsist in such heat? The lava parts in waves as the monster swims rapidly through it. Through craters in the Cremator's thick back armor red hot boulders explode in every direction. The amount of heat and pressure within its body must be a source of immense power. However, its head does not appear as well protected. I pray that it is a source of weakness, for if this leviathan bests me I know there will be no remains left to mark my short existence.
Scavenger `Tasting Your Own Medicine `1305 `14 `22 KM/H `None `Boss `Ranged `The Scavenger is an anthropomorphic figure that appears as a set of legs and arms attached to a large, round body with two red eyes. It can be seen carrying and wearing many of the items that were scattered all over Petrichor V when the UES Contact Light crashed, spilling its cargo in the process. The Scavenger's ability to operate the tools it has found indicates that it is sentient and possesses a certain degree of intelligence. `Scavengers attack by either shooting a fast, white projectile similar to one of Providence's with its Ukulele; or by shooting multiple red homing missiles similar to Volatile enemies in a similar manner to the Disposable Missile Launcher. Scavengers will also start to slowly regenerate health with their Mysterious Vial after not being attacked for a few seconds. When spawning, Scavengers will pop the top of their body out of the ground and appear to look around before exiting the ground and attacking. `Any `BASE ` Field Notes: Who knew a pack rat could be so dangerous! This creature seems to be hoarding many of the items littered across this planet. I have seen no others of its kind. If it hadn't been so intent on slaying me I would have tried to gain this Scavenger as an ally.. Will I ever see a friendly face again, or will my last breaths be on this hostile planet?
Providence `Bulwark of the Weak `9000 `24 `22 KM/H `None `Special Boss `Hybrid `Providence is a boss found in the level Risk of Rain and the final boss of the game, appearing when the player first attempts to relaunch the UES Contact Light. Upon defeat, the player will be prompted to "Leave the planet", triggering the ending cutscene and credits. Providence is a member of the Cyclops, a race of one-eyed humanoid beings. He dons a large crown and a long red robe with gold and cyan accents, resembling royalty. He wears gold bands around both wrists and elbows. Providence wields a large "ikakalaka" sword with a black handle and a cyan blade. Prior to the events of Risk of Rain, Providence and Mithrix lived on Petrichor V creating constructs and modifying the planets physical structure. Mithrix usually lead the two in terms of what to build and how, with Mithrix creating the rest of the constructs ever since Providence put too much soul into Aurelionite, creating the first ever thing that could threaten the brothers lives. The two could not enter space itself, as it caused an illness, so they created a teleporter that would allow them to leave the planet. As Mithrix crossed to the moon, Providence put a lock onto the planet-side teleporter, trapping Mithrix for eternity. After an undefined but large amount of time later, Providence saw the UES: Contact Light orbiting Petrichor V trying to find a matching pair to the teleporters they had onboard, and after 30 minutes teleported onto the ship via said teleporters and crashed it. `During Phase 1, Providence attacks the player with a simple set of attacks. Providence will swing his sword towards the player, teleport above the player and strike down, strike the ground and spawn shockwaves on both sides that explode into pillars of energy, summon two white projectiles which hover in the air before rushing toward the player, and summon shadow clones that move towards the player then attack. Once his health is depleted, Providence will exit the arena and summon the Gilded Wurms. During Phase 2, Gilded Wurms behave similarly to Magma Worms but are able to fly through the air. The blue Wurm regularly sparks electricity around itself. The red Wurm ignites any ground it touches. They use the following attacks: The Wurm's head flashes red and charges at the player, dealing damage on contact. Both Wurms possess this ability. A white reticle appears on the player. The red Wurm shoots a continuous red beam at the Player from its mouth, dealing damage in the point of impact and everything between it. The blue Wurm shoots multiple white projectiles that behave similarly to Providence's. Once both Wurms are killed, Providence will return to the arena to begin Phase 3. Providence initiates Phase 3 by executing a downward slash at the middle of the arena, spawning two Sanctuary Guards. Providence uses a similar set of attacks to Phase 1, with key differences: Providence spawns 3 or 6 shadow clones above the player. They slash downwards at the ground with their swords. Some targets are colored red and always reduce the player to 1HP on hit, bypassing all health-boosting and damage-reduction items. When executing his shockwave attack, Providence leaves a trail of fire. More targets summoning shadow clones appear than in the first stage. Once half of Providence's health is depleted, a shadow clone appears which mirrors his movements. He may swap positions with the clone. Once Providence's health is depleted for the second time, he will vanish. After a brief pause, Providence drops to the middle of the arena to initiate Phase 4. The background changes to a storm. Providence will always begin Phase 4 by summoning six slowly-rotating lasers from the center of the arena, along with 2 lasers on the left and right sides of the arena. Afterward, he will rotate between a selection of several attacks: Six rotating lasers spawn around a point, similar to his initial attack, with only one can exist at a time. A massive laser appears horizontally or vertically depending on the player's position. Targets appear in a randomly-predetermined path. A large target appears at the player's position, which will inflict heavy damage. 4 projectiles spawn which move towards the player quickly. Only one can exist at a time. If Providence has less than ~33% health, one can spawn both horizontally and vertically. Repeatedly teleporting toward and slashing at the player several times. This move is followed up by Providence summoning several red targets at once in a vertical arc. `Risk of Rain `BASE ` Field Notes: I recognized him from the security footage... he was the one who blew the cargo hatches open. He was the one who killed everyone. Providence, as I came to call him, moved faster and with more purpose than anything else I've seen on this planet. He must command great power, for he seemed to easily control two great gilded wurms of a species similar to the Magma Worm. Is he able to command everyone on this planet? I don't know his purpose, or his reasoning, but he did not give me a choice. I had to kill him... so why do I feel like I made a terrible mistake? ...Why did we have a teleporter from this planet in our cargo hold?
Archaic Wisp `None `900 `23 `27 KM/H `None `Enemy `Ranged `Archaic Wisps resemble Greater Wisps that glow a lavender purple instead of green, and with a different mask instead of a skull. `Archaic Wisps behave identically to Greater Wisps, only that their attack is split into two instances of damage, instead of being one instance. `Hive Cluster, Temple of the Elders, Risk of Rain `BASE ` Field Notes: There is no log entry for this enemy.
Young Vagrant `None `700 `4 `32 KM/H `Fly `Enemy `Ranged `Young Vagrants are the adolescent phase of a Jellyfish's life cycle, continuing to mature into Wandering Vagrants. They appear as a larger version of a Jellyfish, but with two eye stalk-like protrusions stemming from the frontal cortex of their brain. `Young Vagrants behave much like Wandering Vagrants, slowly flying towards the player and dashing towards them once in range. They attack by shooting exploding projectiles directly at the player's location, indicated by white circle markers. However, unlike their larger variant, they only shoot 3 projectiles instead of 6. `Risk of Rain `BASE ` Field Notes: There is no log entry for this enemy.
Boarlit `None `35 `5 `23 KM/H `Jump, Fall `Misc `Melee `A Boarlit is a small mammal that resembles Earth wild boar, covered in dark blue fur, and bearing small gray tusks. `Boarlits are individually weak enemies meant to serve as horde fodder when summoned by their presumed mother, the Toxic Beast. Their only method of attack is running towards survivors and dealing contact damage. `Boar Beach, Summoned by Toxic Beast `BASE ` Field Notes: There is no log entry for this enemy.
Armored Boarlit `None `35 `5 `23 KM/H `Jump, Fall `Special `Melee `A unique type of Boarlit of which there's guaranteed to be only one of in Boar Beach. This variant frequently dodges damage, similarly to Hermit's scarfs effect, and always drops the White Undershirt (M) item. `See Boarlit. `Boar Beach `BASE ` Field Notes: There is no log entry for this enemy.
Sanctuary Guard `None `260 `25 `18 KM/H `None `Special `Ranged `Sanctuary Guards appear as upgraded version of Temple Guards. They’re coated a strong red color with cyan detailing and have an additional cannon on top of their neck, totaling to 3. `Sanctuary Guards behave identically to Temple Guards, but have less health, deal more damage, and are faster. On top of this, they shoot 3 shots at a time instead of 2. `Sanctuary Guards are summoned exclusively by Providence during his third phase. `BASE ` Field Notes: There is no log entry for this enemy.
Acrid (NPC) `None `1145 `7 `31 KM/H `Jump, Fall, Climb `Special Boss `Melee / Ranged `Acrid is a special boss. It can be found in the Sunken Tomb in a metal crate. When opening the crate, Acrid will get out to fight. Killing Acrid completes the The Experiment challenge; Unlocking it as a playable character. Acrid is a tetrapodal creature with reptilian features, covered in maroon scales with spikes along its spine, tipped with bright green accents. It has limbs ending in three digit claws, along with four green eyes, and a mouth bearing a large jaw with sharp teeth. Its right upper limb is restrained with a ball and chain. It is capable of spreading noxious poison via its skin pores and saliva. It is able to forcefully spit said poison to great lengths. `The Boss variant of Acrid acts much like the playable Acrid with the exception of spreading contagion, though its actual stats are much different (besides retaining the fact that Acrid has 15 armor). It can slash with its claws at melee range, spit toxic bile, and spread poison along the ground. `Sunken Tomb on variant 1, 2, and 3, in the top right corner of the map. `BASE ` Field Notes: There is no log entry for this enemy, but there is one for them as a survivor.
Gilded Wurms `None `3000 `12 `Unknown `Fly `Special Boss `Melee / Ranged `The Gilded Wurms appear to be a genetically modified species of Magma Worm, tamed by Providence to assist him as his personal guard. The red Wurm has red scales and a black underside with light cyan accentuations, with spikes lining its entire body, and possesses two inward curved horns on its head. The black Wurm has pitch black scales with various dull red and cyan markings adorning its head. Unlike the Magma Worm, both Wurms have one jaw with vertical mandibular movement, and two white eyes. Their mouths contain gnashing teeth, which are a cyan color. Additionally, they’re capable of flight via unknown means, and are not seeing burrowing underground. Both Wurms are capable of manipulating vast amounts of energy, although with differing methods. The red Wurm breathes powerful red beams of energy at perpetrators. The black Wurm projects bright blue spheres of light that charge up momentarily and launch towards enemies. `The Gilded Wurms behave similarly to Magma Worms but are able to fly through the air. The blue Wurm regularly sparks electricity around itself. The red Wurm ignites any ground it touches. They have the following attacks: The Wurm's head flashes red and charges at the player, dealing damage on contact. Both Wurms possess this ability. A white reticle appears on the player. The red Wurm shoots a continuous red beam at the Player from its mouth, dealing damage in the point of impact and everything between it. The black Wurm shoots multiple white projectiles that behave similarly to Providence's. Once both Wurms are killed, Providence will return to the arena to begin Phase 3. `Spawned solely by Providence during his second phase. `BASE ` Field Notes: There is no log entry for these enemies.