Desolate Forest`Ground Zero`1`Monsoon`Honor`Lemurian, Rock Golem, Wisp, Greater Wisp, Jellyfish, Trokk, Colossus, Wandering Vagrant, Magma Worm, Lemurian Calvary`BASE`Crashing into a verdant field isn't the worst outcome. I can see lush, rolling hills and strange castles built into mountains. There are foreign species patrolling the grasslands and bizarre housing foundations erected along worn footpaths. I've seen lizards who walk like men and otherworldly stone creatures infused by blazing lights. They seem docile and intelligent, passing by one another with little interaction, but their stiffened postures leave me wary. There's so much culture here for an undocumented planet. There's so much history to these buildings, but their construction doesn't make any sense. Rebar and concrete make up juvenile fabrications, accompanied by worn bricks gathered from ancient castles just meters away. Tree stumps and dead branches litter the landscape as if a forest was felled. But decay settled on this garden long ago... How do you get to concrete before raising a single village? Red sparks dance in the distant sky. I don't know what I'm hoping for.Dried Lake`Ground Zero`1`Aurora Borealis`Kin`Lemurian, Sand Crab, Wisp, Greater Wisp, Jellyfish, Tuber, Colossus, Wandering Vagrant, Magma Worm, Lemurian Calvary`BASE`A massive desert filled with boardwalks and ten-foot crabs. I'm shocked that this is anywhere near the forest I was just in, but I can still see those mountains in the distance - All that greenery traded for dust and skeletons. I would think these catwalks were built to protect from the hot sand below, but these wrecked ships are buried in such shallow dunes. When was there water here? Rain hits my helmet and sizzles at my feet. The overcast sky softens the shadows of petrified barnacles cast over the distant wooden structures. They're held together like old junk in a garage. I can feel the planks bow under my weight, but I'd rather take my chances than wade through a muddy sea of claws and mandibles.Damp Caverns`Fungal Haven`2`Cyclogenesis`Distortion`Lemurian, Wisp, Greater Wisp, Mushrum, Spitter, Imp, Tuber, Magma Worm, Ancient Wisp, Lynx Totem, Bramble`BASE`I'm launched into darkness. The bioluminescence is fighting with the pitch black of the caverns, and I can barely make out cliffs and valleys alongside these enormous mushrooms. Some younger ones toddle around and release dense gas clouds, but I've yet to see any individuals who have grown beyond my height. I'm cautious to touch the stalks of any of these towering masses should I find one, so I'm left creeping through the dark bellows towards the next pronged portal. The earth's rotten constitution leaves the ground pillowy. Distant sinkholes above me dot the ceiling like stars. It'd be nice, if it weren't for the constant excretions pouring around my boots. And the rotten stench. I can't even hold my nose.Sky Meadow`Field of Sprites`2`Chanson D'automne`Spite`Rock Golem, Greater Wisp, Jellyfish, Child, Parent, Magma Worm, Ancient Wisp, Lynx Totem, Bramble`BASE`I wonder how these landmasses stay afloat? I can't feel any gravitational abnormalities here, even when I'm beneath them. So far this planet has felt like walking on Mars, nothing would've indicated this as a possibility. After falling asleep on an isolated peninsula, I was shocked to wake up with company. Stone statues of hooded figures had surrounded me silently while I slept. No drag marks, no footsteps, no sound. Except there was a sound - a faint hum resonating between them. After a few minutes of stillness, I rose to my feet. I reached out to push them aside and the humming stopped.Ancient Valley`Frozen Tundra`3`Aurora Borealis`Glass`Rock Golem, Clay Man, Mechanical Spider, Bighorn Bison, Swift, Colossus, Imp Overlord, Ifrit`BASE`This bridge just goes on forever... but at least it _is_ a bridge. Between this blizzard and the mountain fog I can't see more than two meters ahead, even with my mounted lights. I know I haven't accidentally turned around because the stampede keeps rumbling in the distance behind me, though I'm starting to wonder if its just the wind against the crumbling cliffsides. There's scorched steel strewn along the road, still smoking. What kind of fire could burn in a place like this? I'll have to clamber down to the exposed access tunnels running underneath the bridge to rest, though I can't tell if the drop below is 10 meters or 10 miles.Sunken Tomb`Underwater Catacombs`3`25 3°N 91 7°E`Enigma`Sand Crab, Imp, Clay Man, Whorl, Macrobe, Colossus, Wandering Vagrant, Imp Overlord`BASE`It's hard to tell how deep these catacombs go. I don't have enough oxygen to explore more deeply. Murals describing some kind of war or migration are etched into the walls, though the water pressure must've torn them apart years ago. I can make out figures riding ships - it's hard to tell and I imagine any species that would build a tomb this deep underwater wouldn't require them. The sarcophagi lining the halls ring hollow and the tables and pots look untouched like some sort of nuclear shelter, frozen in time. The ceilings in here are so high and have skylights dug out from the earth above. The caustics are beautiful on the old stonework, though I don't see how they intended for the sun dial below to serve its purpose.Magma Barracks`The Core`4`Tropic of Capricorn`Sacrifice`Wisp, Mechanical Spider, Bighorn Bison, Evolve Lemurian, Macrobic Predator, Imp Overlord, Toxic Beast, Cremator, Direseeker`BASE`It's hot. My suit can't regulate temperatures like these. I can see waterfalls of lava flowing from grand battlements above me feeding into lakes of magma. The giant turtles below seem quite fond of it, though the surrounding Lemurians seem to have built great steel pens to cage them in. I've caught glimpses of the tribes ferrying back and forth atop their ashen shells almost as frequently as I've seen sacrifices made to feed them. These walkways between the watch towers are calm for now, but the amount of weapons strewn about are concerning. I can hear the clanking of workshops ahead. The only way left is up from here. A mile or so above me I can see the roots of a great tree with battlements spiraling towards it. Maybe I won't need to take a portal this time?Hive Cluster`Deep Undergrowth`4`Chanson D'automne`Command`Spitter, Parent, Gup, Evolved Lemurian, Archaic Wisp, Macrobe, Imp Overlord, Toxic Beast`BASE`It's hard to tell whats alive and what isn't down here. The fibrous membranes that line the walls are sticky like fresh sap, and its difficult to avoid stepping on gestating pustules wherever you go. I'm stuck hanging from this flesh-rope for now. It's either waiting for these orange beasts to leave or upsetting the hive with more gunfire. At least this time I'm smelling strawberries instead of rot, but the sweet siren's call isn't doing much when I can see skeletons inside this thing. I can feel a slight crawling sensation around my hands and the heat pulses from these fibers like some kind of sick womb. I heard what sounded like crying a moment ago, but it's stopped since then. It was probably my imagination, the constant buzzing is as deafening as it is frightening.Temple of the Elders`Holy Ground`5`Artic Oscillation`Spirit`Clay Man, Elder Lemurian, Temple Guard, Archer Bug, Swift, Lemurian Calvary, Bramble, Imp Overlord, Toxic Beast, Lynx Totem`BASE`A vast hole of clouds swirls along the lip of this massive floating ridge. Towers and churches are constructed with windows and archways all standing with reverence toward the center of the miles-wide gap. A sort of vortex sucks the air downward and I can see flocks of birds dancing in the wind, like some sort of ritual. The sun touches these stones like nowhere else and a massive spire echoes into the sky, piercing the clouds only to be swallowed again before reaching the atmosphere. It has to have been a thousand steps climbed by now, with the corpses piling up in the nave below. Thunder roars down this spiral, with red lightning flashing shadows of future combatants against the walls. From this height I can finally see it: The Contact Light.Risk Of Rain`UES Contact Light`Final`Coalescence`Origin`Clay Man, Archaic Wisp, Elder Lemurian, Temple GUard, Young Vagrant, Macrobic Predator, Lemurian Calvary, Imp Overlord, Scavenger, Providence`BASE`//-c o m m a n d   l o g  0 1 UES Class-D Ship 'Contact Light' is capable of carrying 8 million standard-load crates in a single voyage. Freight containers of varying sizes can be magnetized to its cargo hold, with rotational drums stabilizing any disturbances that may occur during space travel. With 50 years of shipments under its wing, it's still a relatively juvenile freighter within the D Suite. Recent restructuring has caused shipment schedules to be rotated among the lesser ships. With half of Class-A ships out of commission due to [REDACTED], the 'Contact Light' has been chosen to deliver [REDACTED]'s previously scheduled cargo. A new captain has been assigned to oversee the journey, and we have placed agents on-board for security reasons. Godspeed.Boar Beach`Simpler Times`3.5`Aurora Borealis`None`Boarlit, Lemurian, Mushrum, Sand Crab, Tuber, Toxic Beast, Scavenger`BASE`Through some brambles and fencing I've come across a clearing in the fog. A big bang dropped me from my perch as boars rampaged, weaving in and out of the iron rebar collected from the endless bridge. The spikes were organized into patterns, almost like farm pens, and the pigs each took turns collecting dirt and piling it between them. Beyond that was a barren circle formed from repeated stomping in the tundra. Two boars were fighting within, but one dressed in a shirt appeared to be dancing between the other's attacks, as if it had years of experience.  What ki d o   eco s   s       n? W     a  --  ///Data fragment error: EXCEPTION CCPLS_7479@@@@@@@@@@